Welcome back, to digital
forensic concepts.
In this course, we are talking
about reporting in peer review.
In this module, Module 3,
we're going to talk about
the definition and the
importance of peer review.
Peer review is defined by SWEDG,
the scientific working group as,
an evaluation conducted by a
second qualified examiner,
of reports, notes, data,
conclusions, and other documents.
Peer review ensures
the reliability
and validity of findings
and conclusions.
Peer review is when another
qualified examiner,
looks at the results of
your forensic examination,
and decides whether
they think it is valid,
that it makes sense,
that it's reproducible,
and that it is correct.
They may give you back
some suggestions,
constructive criticism, but
it's a way of learning.
Peer review has been proven,
to increase the reliability
and accuracy of reports.
Next slide. Most of us will
have peer review in our labs.
If we're working in a
lab-based environment,
this is the primary area
where peer review happens,
and that's when you have
another examiner in your lab,
look at your report
and your findings.
It is known to reduce errors.
It should be part of
every examination.
It is extremely important,
because you want to
find the mistakes
before you turn in
your final report,
your presentation,
or whoever is going to
be looking at your work.
Whether it's your boss,
if you're doing it for a clients,
if you're turning it
into a lawyer's office,
you really want to have
some type of peer review,
to have that report and
those findings looked at,
by another qualified examiner
before you turn them over.
Benefits of peer review.
Well, it helps give us some
scientific credential,
because after all this
is a scientific process.
In the case, Daubert versus
Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals,
peer review, was one of
the tests for
admissibility of evidence.
Peer review is also one of
the best ways to overcome and
prevent potential errors in
our reports, like I said before.
But there wasn't admissibility
tests for evidence,
set forth in a case and that's,
Daubert versus Merrell
Dow Pharmaceuticals,
where peer review was
actually part of that test,
to consider whether evidence
would or would not be admissible.
That's how important
peer review is.
I just want to
really stress that.
It's also one of the
best ways to overcome
and prevent potential
biases in our report.
We all are human beings and
we do have our own biases.
If you have another objective,
professional look at your
report and your findings,
they can do it from
a way that might
not be clouded with
certain biases,
that you may or may not have.
But it does help prevent
these biases from becoming
part of our report.
It does offer a way to
improve the quality
of future work.
Like I said before,
constructive criticism,
we can learn to improve,
when we have another
professional look
at our reports and
give us feedback.
I hope you now
understand what peer review
is and why it's important.